Mr. Preetam Singh should step down then. I don't think he liked the parliament. This is the way of setting the WP up for even more crisis. And now, okay, with a leader, that only means the truth. How come nothing of this scale happened when Mr. Ranjana was revealed to have an extra measure of fair? Ever you're on the tutus cadet, Bobo, because we have things that we care about more. No one actually realizes how difficult this is actually for the people. Woohoo! Emergency episode. Leader of the House in Drany Rajar filed a motion for Parliament to consider pedencing unsuitable to be leader of the opposition. Dranging up a conversation that has been going on for four years. We are going to talk about the pedencing trial and what's going on now essentially, because there's been hotly debated on Reddit. August they need to be one, lies was hold. There was a COP hearing later on in December 2021. And then the report came out in 2020, too, about who lie whether or not this was correct. You sent me first evidence. There was also contested by Preetam in Parliament saying that there were gaps and omissions in the COP report. But never mind. We moved on. And then two years later, after the case was referred to the public prosecutor, charges were brought against him. For two counts of giving false evidence to a parliamentary committee. And then he was convicted in February 2025, guilty of both counts. He appealed and he lost his appeal in December 2025. Last week, January 2020, 2016, leader of the House in Drany Rajar filed a motion for him to be removed as leader of the opposition. Don't worry, the bitch for. Go! Go! Go! Go, Rajar, you say something. Say something inflammatory to the BB. I'm sitting on the far left position of the table. I'm going to be extremely objective. Okay. This is only. I actually think that this is all pre-times doing. I believe it's false. Shut up. And I think BB pay off. So, brother, hands of price. I know it's probably the worst tone to set right from the start. But is anyone not tired of this whole case? I thought in your introduction that you were going to say, every time this development comes out, every Singapore has been like, we're not done. That's true. Yeah, that was my sentiment. And then I learned last week only. In 2020, Parliament, like, voted on emotion to table this until the results of the charges like... And the little proceeding... No, under the results were given, only then will Parliament talk about parliamentary discipline. First and foremost, if I would go to a couple steps back, right? Would you say you agree with the verdict of the judge? He's deemed to have liked during the Committee of Inquiry. Yeah. But in Parliament, you know, like... He didn't do shit like this. Yeah. Which is why I was like, I didn't get into any legal trouble because speech is protecting Parliament. It's just that I believe that in his, as he said, his intention was to tell her that to go and clarify it and then he won't judge her for whatever option she chooses to do. Either be it or not resigned whatever. He conveyed a message to her that she of all people, like, being enough brain that she has, should have been to take it as, Mr. Britannis telling me to go and unup to the truth. And meet my mistake probably resign from her seat. He didn't say after the COP report came out that Riser Khan's claim that he asked her to take this to the grave was unvery fine. Because only she said it. And only percent this entire case who ran up and admitted that they like was Riser Khan. So the only word, the whole case, he just on the word of like the liar. And the whole thing he said. So he said, yes. But it's also that there was a summary of the meeting that was sent to the AIDS. And then there's the whole, what's the exchange between her and the AIDS? Yeah. And so those things happen when the conversation happened. It was like right after. It was not one man later. It was not one man later. When it got caught, it still from her counter. Yeah. I mean, by still is from her counter, in a sense, it's a place whereby she didn't need to see these things. Sorry. I also want to, I mean, I mean, his statement by, I also don't seem like I was just like defending me. Because I feel like I do respect Mr. Britannis. Like he's probably the one guy we trying to get on the show. Yeah. I do respect him as the police episode. But I think it's still fully that. I don't think he liked the parliament. I told her to go and on her. She never do it. My contention with him is that he's shabbed on this the week. The day he found out August 8th. Sure. Sure. My contention is not even a timing. It's why we think. Like I mean, the problem is that it's open to interpretation. If you are in a moment of crisis, where your organization, right? Integrity is almost being questioned. Be very, very explicit about the instruction. And I think that's a problem because we're really just debating about the interpretation. You should just order her to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Because this whole episode could really like last. Yeah. I think it is pertinent for us to actually focus on the current development, which is that now the leader of the house has brought up this motion as to you know, figure out whether either opposition is worthy of his current role. If there is a question of his integrity because of this one incident, is that equality that would then negate his ability to be an effective L.O. And have this privilege. On the other hand, I think people are saying that, okay, the legal punishment has already taken place. Why does it seem that there's a political stacking of punishments? Maybe I explained why the meat for leader of opposition. Yeah. It was a recognition that Singaporeans will want to have opposition in Parliament always. So then that was instituted to make Mr. Pritamsing, a leader of opposition of which then he get an office, he get a meeting room. That would be a system. That would be, he can hire people now. He hire more people, so he can talk more, he got more and more at a lot of that time. And he got briefings with regards to, especially national security. Singaporean is to make an occasion. Pritams is probably the only leader of opposition we've seen so far. Do we drop him from there? And then lose such a key talent that Singapore took 60 years to make one, or we set the correct precedent for what is the correct attitude slash moral code for a leader of opposition in Parliament. No, it's not just an opinion matter because the numbers say so. And this case took place and concluded prior to the polling day. And on polling day, the voters of his GRC decided on the merits of that amount of other things. They balanced it up. And they were like, I'm still, this is a dissaperson. I still want to be sending me any polling back in with not reduced votes. In fact, I think they are, the focus body is more the view that maintain or even like, gain some votes in places. To be fair, right, if we looked at the election, the tweet, to be in fact election as a mandate, a resounding mandate for Mr. Lawrence Wong, the same should be actually applied to Mr. Pitamsing, which we got to do the results for his GRC, actually. My read of the situation was that we all agree that Riza should have done that. She did that and put up that nothing will happen of the lie. And so never say anything until he needs to say something. And I think that's what the court found also. And I think by and large Singaporeans are be like, okay, like we don't, I mean, maybe for a little bit of protests from you, but not much of a protest. Yeah, like that's the truth as we accept it. So now the problem is, do we as Singaporeans feel like, Pipee or Parliament should pursue this matter, to its end meaning given the parliamentary disciplinary action, or Pipee should take a high route on this one. What do you all think? I think generally Singaporeans are happy with Mr. Pitamsing staying on SLO. I think there are so segment of people that go, okay, this is the first time that we really have been like a serious leader of opposition. Whatever we decide now, we'll set the precedence from Kewan. And I agree with what John said in terms of his read, that people are actually okay with things to move forward SLEs. Yeah. Because when you look at like other comments online, right? Most people are not actually commenting on whether or not he should be removed. But on why are people, why are we spending Parliament time talking about this? Rather than bread and butter issues, that's mostly about angry about it. Actually when this piece of news came out, yeah, yeah. It's also in Lawrence Wong's power if I'm not wrong to just remove the leader of opposition title from preterm. Yeah. And then we call it a day. Do you think that's what Singaporeans want? The conclusion here is for gone to me. Before Chinese media, he's not going to be a leader of the media opinion. And this is something that I saw in 2020. And I saw it being spoken about online. Right? Because there was something that was said by commenters online that this job, this position is a poison cell is something that you're going to get hit with later on. And at that time, I was like, why are you talking about this is progress? The leader of the general is such a consolidation of a decade of like opposition movement. And then now I see it happening because what do he really get out of the media? In my opinion, I don't think it's shake the needle too much that you need to fight over it too, I don't think you need to spend political capital to keep this position. I guess for some, it feels like you have now also created a better story in which you can chop somebody up. Yeah, yeah. And that's why. And I come back to the thing is that I saw, so I didn't see, but now I see how that position is like so, Right? The difference against the dark glass kind of position, right? You're kind of screwed. And if he loses it, I don't see it being existential to even the work as part of the event to him's on juror's team. I don't think it's in matters. I think by the time we get to media, we want even care about this anymore. And I say Mr. Preetam Singh should step down then. You are arguing about this title is so important to you that you want to go through all this hassle. Take it. I want to focus on the better and better issues. If I was a WP strategy, I would be like, basically put up no argument from now until the thing is voted on. Whenever you have whenever they make a speech talking about this, whenever leader of the house comes in argues, completely just say, okay, sure, and then move on to a policy argument, and it looks like only the PAP are arguing in this one room that they are talking about. You don't care about the position. Leave it. I don't care. And then you will make them look a bit silly and move on with your, if you want me to resign, I'll just resign and leave the position. Yeah. That's I think what I would play if I was WP strategist. And people of wondering what was WP stands in the whole thing. Like there was a clear photo that they put out, like, especially after Mr. Jaren and Drany Rajar came out with the motion. He looked like it was in solidarity of Mr. Pitaum Singh because if you were to be put up before, it was taken in Sengang, which is where Riza Khan was MP at. And then if you actually look at where Mr. Low was position, he is position just right behind to us. Just behind his left shoulder. Hey, what does that mean? Like he got his back. He got his back. Right shoulder. You need to right hand man very much. Oh, you should know. Yeah, but left is support. Left is more support. And if usually, you just kind of think it's happened within PR, right? You will want to show a new possible leadership, especially in big, least companies, right? That you will want to show, like, I know what's going to happen now. Right hand man is already here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What on the ground, right? So by he stood behind showing that I am not right hand man. I'm not ready to say I'm not succeeding. I'm not really taking over. He's still in charge. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It was very, very intentional. You can just tell, like, look at it. Which I think is not only for people, not only for people, or during or only for people of Sengang or Singapore, but I feel that picture is a message to the WP countries. I think this is, you think this is where you can challenge the second generation position. If this were you think you won't work on the audience or whatever it is that you want to do, don't. Because that entire party stands for him. Because this is the kind of thing that leads to leadership challenges. When Chen show mouth, our challenge, lot of you can't back in the day when he thought, because to 15, there was a party going straight through the mic, right? They lost so many people. He challenged. He lost eventually, or they can make, you know, because they can maintain this position as a general, but it happened. Or is DP, which I'm saying, don't. This is the kind of thing that leads to internal party challenges. But now it's like the top three people, like, exactly. This is the, if you were an opportunistic lower ranking worker's party member, this is the best time for you to try and make a move. Young black and young black. And they are showing, don't try, because they tie party stands with. Yeah, I think your, I think the assessment, the heim stepping down voluntarily and then, not engaging, right? I think that is, I think a good assessment for the short term. But history is very much painted by the victors. I think he's a short term thing that looks okay, but I think five years from now, that year's from now, we will look back in the wiki pediathe. You see that he has to step down because he lied in committee of privileges. Right. That's the single line that. Yeah, Singapore hit, right? Last time we hit one, after no more one, when all the guy lied in thing then, got stripped off then, do you win parliament? Yeah, I win parliament. And that's what, and we just not, we just not wrong, right? But that's what 10 years from now, that's how we will summarize who it was, put them sick. And if they step down, are they saying that you are right, I lie? Because he has spent the last four years saying, I know lie, right? Yeah. To come out and say, okay, interesting, you're all thinking I lie, I step down. It goes to say, yeah, you got me, you know what I mean? I guess this comes out together, he cares about his legacy more than anything else. Because to me, I only see each political maneuver in the context of the next election. To me, everything you do from the day after polling there, it matters for the next pollinators, because we will come back to this as I guarantee you the next election, we will talk about this moment before the polling day, we will go and look at Wikipedia and they will read the backstory and they will ask Chagy VT, and then a summary will be, he was removed because he lied. And that will be the truth for the students that will learn about Singapore's political history. We look at very similarly the Albert crossfiles. I think what was, what was very interesting about the Albert crossfiles is that without this information, or even with only some people knowing this information in government, we look at how we paint the out history. Broly nothing much has changed, but you see how the phrasing and wording change. Nothing material change with the review of the Albert crossfiles by anger and all the relations on this was our history. This was the truth history, but nothing material changed. And I think many people see symbolically as the PAP finally recognizing an opposition, right? Because the PAP has always helped this position, that they are not here to hold the power forever. They want to do what's best for Singapore. And they until there is a worthy opposition that they must do their best to win votes, so that they can do right by Singapore. And by them appointing a leader of opposition, is the first that in recognizing that there is worthy or that is credible opposition in Singapore, even though not big enough to form government. So I think it's short term, this seems cool. Like I seem like the correct rebel thing to do, but I don't think that will be should see themselves as that small rebel group anymore, because they are now a real force to be reckoned with. But no one actually realizes how difficult this is actually for the PAP. Because there is no way they actually could possibly win in this scenario. If you look at it, I think that Mr. Pitam Singh is actually a pretty good collaborator for the PAP as an opposition member, ready to work with the PAP, even the circumstances. Very good, the limcian as yellow. Exactly. And so, but I just know no need to imagine that. If they were to keep the title of L.O. but appoint somebody else or signing to somebody else, they don't know what that entity is. But it's so weird to have a sectarian who's not alone. Which is why it might undermine his leadership. So which is why I think John mentioned that if Lauren from Prime Minister Lauren from we moves that title as a whole, I think that looks like the keyness for everybody, but if they appoint someone else, then PAP is almost forcing WP's hand in a transition. How do they even decide? Is it German, then it will be Missile Vierchen? Yes. I think a lot of people are also saying she should be accountable to the whole or deal with that. This is the way of setting the WP up for even more crisis. Is that I make you pick a news like that? I make you do all these things. Yeah. So keeping the job, picking someone new is the PAP is best played. Yeah. That's the reason because as we go to the wording of the motion, it indicates that there is a separate consideration for Missile Vierchen, Mr. Faizam Marat and something that they will come to later. So that to me feels a bit of a threat, it's like I do with one verse and then based on that, if you guys go in, nominate Suvio to be a second, then I'll come after her after that. It's like, So if you're tired of this, guess what? I'm gonna take it. So, that's the pre-tape, please. Take one, two, one for the key. No, the three of them have to take one for the team. Oh my god. I think the every single person wouldn't really care if the title of a little no longer is this. Yeah, this is what I wanted to say. Like when John asked the question, the first thought in my head is, I don't care. Like I agree that it's also just a title. And then the two polls that I did run in our community channel, regarding this topic, right? The first one was when the news first came out. I asked people whether they felt that Missile Vierchen was right to table this. Or whether it's a political move, or whether or not he should have been convicted in the first place. And overwhelmingly, people felt that it was a political move. And this was interesting because when I ran the second poll, which was on a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you trust our ruling party, PAP? Because I presume that based on the first answer, the second one would be people saying that they don't trust the PAP, because they're trying to play this out in capitalized. But again, overwhelming leave, they rate that four or five. I didn't work in the true way. There is full faith in the PAP government, but also recognize that, hey, I know you're doing it. Yeah, and so that's why I think the sentiment on the ground is whatever you want to do, just get it over with because we have things that we care about more. Yes, like just faster do. But that's the way. But that's the case. Then why do I need to listen to parliament debate about it? And then eventually vote on the way, I know they're going to vote. If there's nothing fundamentally going to change, if everybody agrees to the court, and therefore you agree with the wording on the motion, then am I going to really have to sit true more? I was watching the parliament. But then we shouldn't vote on anything like that. Then why we need one third? Because the other things are not being voted on by the courts. And this has been voted on the budget before. And something like we mentioned is that it has come down to an election, and the people have also voted. Yeah, the courts have spoken, the people have spoken. Yeah. Now, party Monday to speak also. Like, I come on, everybody said the same thing, just say the same thing and get on with it. Now you're going to push the motion, you're going to do it. So, okay, so, so, wow, what you personally are hoping for is that when the courts gave the verdict, the appeal has failed. Yeah. That BM just come out and strip you on the title and then we move on. Yeah, done. The one parallel that keeps being online is how come nothing of this scale happened when the former speaker of the house, Mr. Dungeoning was discovered to have revealed to have an action made to have a fair blah blah blah, ethical concerns, and then PM knew about it. Mm-hmm. Totally to cut it. So he knew about it. He thought he looked cut it out. He thought, well, we were stopped, you know, stop it, stop it. And then as I tell you the topic, also go and get ready to transition out because I'm going to get like, you know, I'm telling you this is your warning. You're going to get done, you know, dirty, but they chose not to he this morning. And they chose to continue with their, that's the exact same story as I'm saying that this, my point was that this is being seen as theater because they don't hold themselves to the same standard when arguably something worse has happened in terms of the PAP situation. And so it's like how come now right for something that allegedly is a misrepresentation or misinterpretation of what Mr. Pitamsing said, you go so far as to like call this voice. Right. Like they acting as though like they're so integrity, but actually know that's the problem. I'm not sure if they're acting like they have the moral high ground. I think it's more of a call or conducting because I think there was a no point where they say preterm line in parliament. I think that was never in contention, but in the community of inquiry and privileges, that was where he might have omitted the truth and of found to be lying. So never say he like it's interpreted that he is lying. Whereas you compare that in tantongent case, for example, he never actually did get caught. Right. And he was not floating any rules in parliament. It was a party conduct and then he got out of the given time to not do anything. I think Apple to Apple comparison is previous transport minister is Warren, where when he got caught taking things, then a committee of inquiry and privileges was convain. I don't know what the privilege is. I think inquiry was convain. And then he said why he said he feel like he no wrong, but based on he said why he said the judge conclude that okay wrong. And then for no reason drag this out and then prove him to prison and I feel like that. But vice this is not is it because it was a very clearly like there was tangible things that he don't. So even if you say I don't assume this as a bright bro like who you like to kind of think and that brings me to when it reminds me of a COVID when Dr. Vivian claimed that he mistakenly spoke that trace together data would not be used for anything other than for contact tracing. But then he came out later to say actually sorry the police do use this data. We do give it to them for crime, serious crime and all that. And then people don't go you liar is okay, we trust that you made a mistake. You know, as soon as we party day someone's always probably made a mistake never try to provision. But he used it. Did he come out and say he made a mistake. He did come out and he came out and he came out and he came out and said no. So then I believe that is a mistake. I never see you liar. See you pee. No, I never write nobody was calling for stuff like that because we understand we were in a situation. He did something and then he realized actually he's not why you were I'm not he's sorry. Yeah, he's people did something and then data was shared that shouldn't have been the the slight difference. I think he's that he made the blunder than he get to self correct. I don't okay. And you don't know she want to write. Yeah. The difference is that right, so then write something was you I know. Yeah, she she left before anything. Oh, she already you know she got caught then there was a there's a investigation on Rice and then pre time got involved. Yeah, I think that. No, but I when when you say this right how I interpret it is you are saying it is okay. If I am hiding things from the public and I'm not so caught man of integrity as long as I don't say any false things in Parliament. That's what it sounds like to me. You know what I mean like you're saying that now one person because they like in Parliament therefore that is whole proceedings and they are one because they didn't lie in Parliament. So even though there was a big thing he done from the public that could have had a lot of implications that's okay. Maybe you're okay. So that means no. I mean now in the comments right what you're thinking about this. So after everything that we've talked about right what are your personal takeaways. I think that the position needs to be like some level of integrity is but I've helped by still think that Mr. Presum Singh is still the best leader of Opposition whether there's a formal role whether he actually is the leader of WP I still think that he's the best person. So despite the precedent that he might set if we let him continue, could a country should retain talent. Yeah, because I think that he's question of integrity and whether he's not was based on a very like in my opinion of the statement that was given but I can see why intention and interpretation could have been next up. And so I think based on just that one sentence alone I don't think it's going enough to strip him of his political holdings or capital of everything that he's done. I do think that it's a political move but I also think that the proceedings of parliament need to be upheld because it is an institution that has certain rules and regulations to me just remove the title of L.O. And keep everything else as it is. Actually after everything that we talked about I personally like lean towards where then is because I you know we talked about how the court has made his judgment. At the same time the people have elected him so then the only thing that is left is the very specific like parliamentary discipline which is then just this title. So removing that then sounds like okay now everything is closed. I do feel from all this that the BAP have put themselves in the corner here. You know they have to go to the end of the sentence they have to take the office away because if not then the motion is meaningless. I see why many people feel like it's like a theatrical thing that's being dragged out. But I do feel like it's a due process that needs to be followed because they voted to postpone and then now postpone so we need to do it. Do PM you need letter really decide I'm gonna take away you don't deserve it. Never know the correct way is let's have parliament talk about it. Even if I'm gonna remove it at the end I want to say why then I want to hear your side or why not. But I do feel like to a certain extent as a maturing democracy. I'm very interested and I think it's necessary to play this out. And with that we've come to the end of the episode. Let us know your thoughts down below where you personally stand. Like share subscribe and we'll see you in the next one. Bye bye.